# ERC721 Primitives

- [ERC721](#erc721), keeping track of NFT ownership for a specified ERC721 contract at the currently processed blockheight, as well as generating scheduled inputs for newly minted NFTs;

## ERC721

### Example

```yaml
extensions:
  - name: "My NFT Contract"
    type: "erc721"
    contractAddress: "0x01...ef"
    startBlockHeight: 7654321
    scheduledPrefix: "newnft"
    # optional
    burnScheduledPrefix: "nftburn"
```

### Meaning

This extension allows you to track NFT ownership for any ERC721-compatible contract. You may also use it with PaimaERC721 contracts, which additionally allow you to specify an arbitrary string when minting an NFT &ndash; this extension type supports retrieving that string using scheduled inputs.

### Paima Concise format

```
prefix|contractAddress|tokenId|mintData
```

where:

- `prefix` is the `scheduledPrefix` specified in the config file,
- `contractAddress` is the address of the contract (also specified in the config file),
- `tokenId` is the ID of the newly minted token (in base 10),
- `mintData` is the string emitted when the NFT was minted for PaimaERC721 NFTs (used for specifying the type of Stateful NFT). For classical ERC721 contracts, it will always be an empty string.


**If** `burnScheduledPrefix` is set, burn events are also emitted with the format:

```
prefix|owner|tokenId
```

where:

- `prefix` is the value of `burnScheduledPrefix` in the config file.
- `owner` is the address that burned the token.
- `tokenId` is the ID of the newly minted token (in base 10),


### Utility functions

- `getNftOwner`, to fetch the address which owns the NFT with the specified token ID:

```ts
export async function getNftOwner(
  readonlyDBConn: PoolClient,
  cdeName: string,
  nftId: bigint
): Promise<string | null>;
```

- `isNftOwner`, to check whether the specified address owns the specified NFT:

```ts
export async function isNftOwner(
  readonlyDBConn: PoolClient,
  cdeName: string,
  nftId: bigint,
  ownerAddress: string
): Promise<boolean>;
```

- `getOwnedNfts`, to fetch a list of token IDs of NFTs owned by the specified wallet address:

```ts
export async function getOwnedNfts(
  readonlyDBConn: PoolClient,
  cdeName: string,
  ownerAddress: string
): Promise<bigint[]>;
```

- `getAllOwnedNfts`, to fetch a list of `tokenId`,`cdeName` pairs of NFTs owned by the specified wallet address across all Primitives:

```ts
export async function getAllOwnedNfts(
  readonlyDBConn: PoolClient,
  ownerAddress: string
): Promise<
  {
    cdeName: string;
    tokenId: bigint;
  }[]
>;
```

## Capturing nft burn events

There is no separate nft burn event in the ERC721 contract, but a burn is just a transfer to the zero address (`'0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000'`). Transfer events can be captured using a [generic Primitive](./999-Generic.md) and then filtered based on the `to` address. Note that you will need to provide a built abi (it is built during deployment). Example of a generic extension entry:
```yaml
  - name: "NFT transfer"
    type: generic
    contractAddress: "0x01...ef"
    startBlockHeight: 7654321
    abiPath: "./abis/ERC721.json"
    eventSignature: "Transfer(address,address,uint256)"
    scheduledPrefix: nftTransfer
```
